saunafs-uraft.cfg(5)
=====================

== NAME

saunafs-uraft.cfg - main configuration file for saunafs-uraft

== DESCRIPTION

The file *saunafs-uraft.cfg* contains configuration of SaunaFS HA suite.

== SYNTAX

Syntax is:

'OPTION' *=* 'VALUE'

Lines starting with *#* character are ignored.

== OPTIONS

Configuration options:

*URAFT_NODE_ADDRESS*:: Contains an IP address or hostname of uraft node,
possibly with port. This option should be specified multiple times in order to
contain information on *every* node in the cluster. Example:
URAFT_NODE_ADDRESS = node1:9427
URAFT_NODE_ADDRESS = node2
URAFT_NODE_ADDRESS = 192.168.0.1:9427

*URAFT_ID*:: This option is strictly connected with the ones above -
*URAFT_NODE_ADDRESS*. It identifies on which node this uraft instance runs on.
Node numbers start from 0 and have the same order as URAFT_NODE_ADDRESS
entries. For example, if this configuration resides on node with hostname
'node2', its URAFT_ID should be set to 1.

*LOCAL_MASTER_ADDRESS*:: Specifies an address of local SaunaFS master server
(default: localhost).

*LOCAL_MASTER_MATOCL_PORT*:: Specifies a client port of local SaunaFS master
server (default: 9421).

*URAFT_FLOATING_IP*:: Floating IP to be used as an active master.

*URAFT_FLOATING_NETMASK*:: Network mask matching floating IP configuration.

*URAFT_FLOATING_IFACE*:: Network interface where floating IP should be managed
(example: eth0).

*ELECTION_TIMEOUT_MIN*:: *[advanced]* minimal timeout in milliseconds for
election algorithm.

*ELECTION_TIMEOUT_MAX*:: *[advanced]* maximal timeout in milliseconds for
election algorithm.

*HEARTBEAT_PERIOD*:: *[advanced]* period in milliseconds between subsequent
heartbeat messages.

*LOCAL_MASTER_CHECK_PERIOD*:: *[advanced]* period in milliseconds between
checking wheter local master is alive.

== REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to the Github repository <https://github.com/leil/saunafs> as an
issue.

== COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008-2009 Gemius SA

Copyright 2013-2019 Skytechnology sp. z o.o.

Copyright 2023-2024 Leil Storage OÃœ

SaunaFS is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, version 3.

SaunaFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
SaunaFS. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

== SEE ALSO

saunafs-uraft(8)
