saunafs(7)
==========

== NAME

saunafs, sfs - a networking, distributed, highly available file system

== DESCRIPTION

SaunaFS is a networking, highly available, distributed file system. It spreads
data over several physical localisations (servers), which are visible to a user
as one resource. For standard file operations SaunaFS acts as other Unix-alike
file systems. It has hierarchical structure (directory tree), stores files'
attributes (permissions, last access and modification times) as well as makes
it possible to create special files (block and character devices, pipes and
sockets), symbolic links (file names pointing to another files accessible
locally, not necessarily on SaunaFS) and hard links (different names of files
which refer to the same data on SaunaFS). Access to the file system can be
limited basing on IP address and/or password.

Distinctive features of SaunaFS are:

 - higher reliability (data can be stored in several copies on separate
   computers)

 - dynamically expanding disk space by attaching new computers/disks

 - possibility of storing deleted files for a defined period of time ("trash
   bin" service on a file system level)

 - possibility of creating snapshot of a file, which means coherent copy of
   them whole file, even while the file is being written.


== ARCHITECTURE

SaunaFS installation consists of five types of machines:

 - master metadata server (or `the master') a managing server - single computer
   managing the whole filesystem, storing metadata for every file (information
   on size, attributes and file localisation(s), including all information
   about non-regular files, i.e. directories, sockets, pipes and devices.

 - metadata server shadows (or `the shadow') - almost identical to the master,
   there can be any number  of those, they work as master metadata server
   backup and they are ready for immediate deployment as new master in case of
   current master failure.

 - data servers (any number of commodity servers storing files data and
   replicating it among themselves (if a certain file is supposed to exist in
   more than one copy).

 - metadata backup servers - any number of servers, all of which store metadata
   changelogs and periodically downloading base metadata file; it's easy to run
   sfsmaster process on such machine when primary master stops working.

 - client computers referring to SaunaFS stored files - any number of machines
   with working sfsmount process that communicates with the managing server to
   receive and modify file information and with chunkservers to exchange actual
   file data.


Metadata is stored in memory of the managing server and simultaneously is being
saved on disk (as a periodically updated binary file and immediately updated
incremental logs). The main binary file as well as the logs are replicated to
metaloggers (if present).


File data is divided to fragments (chunks) of maximum size 64MB each which are
stored as files on selected disks on data servers (chunkservers). Each chunk is
saved on different computers in a number of copies equal to a "goal" for the
given file.

== REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to the Github repository <https://github.com/leil/saunafs> as an
issue.

== COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008-2009 Gemius SA

Copyright 2013-2019 Skytechnology sp. z o.o.

Copyright 2023-2024 Leil Storage OÃœ

SaunaFS is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, version 3.

SaunaFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
SaunaFS. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

== SEE ALSO

sfschunkserver(8), sfsmaster(8), sfsmetalogger(8), sfsmount(1),
saunafs-admin(8)
