sfschunkserver.cfg(5)
=====================

== NAME

sfschunkserver.cfg - main configuration file for *sfschunkserver*

== DESCRIPTION

The file *sfschunkserver.cfg* contains configuration of SaunaFS chunkserver
process.

== SYNTAX

Syntax is:

'OPTION' *=* 'VALUE'::

Lines starting with *#* character are ignored.

== OPTIONS

Configuration options:

*DATA_PATH*:: where to store files with usage statistics and daemon lock file

*LABEL*:: the label of this chunkserver (for tiering)

*WORKING_USER*:: user to run daemon as

*WORKING_GROUP*:: group to run daemon as (optional - if empty then default user
group will be used)

*SYSLOG_IDENT*:: name of process to place in syslog messages (default is
sfschunkserver)

*LOCK_MEMORY*:: whether to perform mlockall() to avoid swapping out
sfschunkserver process (default is 0, i.e. no)

*NICE_LEVEL*:: nice level to run daemon with (default is -19 if possible; note:
process must be started as root to increase priority)

*MASTER_HOST*:: address of SaunaFS master host to connect with (default is
sfsmaster)

*MASTER_PORT*:: number of SaunaFS master port to connect with (default is 9420)

*MASTER_RECONNECTION_DELAY*:: delay in seconds before trying to reconnect to
the master server after disconnection (default is 5)

*MASTER_TIMEOUT*:: timeout (in seconds) for the master server connection
(default is 60, minimum is 0.01)

*BIND_HOST*:: local address to use for connecting with the master server
(default is ***, i.e. default local address)

*CSSERV_LISTEN_HOST*:: IP address to listen on for client (mount) connections
(*** means any)

*CSSERV_LISTEN_PORT*:: port to listen on for client (mount) connections
(default is 9422)

*CSSERV_TIMEOUT*:: timeout (in seconds) for client (mount) connections (default
is 5)

*HDD_CONF_FILENAME*:: alternative name of *sfshdd.cfg* file

*HDD_LEAVE_SPACE_DEFAULT*:: free space threshold to set volume as 100% utisaued
when there is less than given amount of free space left (default is "4GiB").
This number is always added to the used disk space reported by chunkserver.

*HDD_TEST_FREQ*:: chunk test period in seconds (default is 10)

*HDD_CHECK_CRC_WHEN_READING*:: whether to check the CRC on every read operation
(default is 1)

*HDD_ADVISE_NO_CACHE*:: whether to remove each chunk from page when closing it
to reduce cache pressure generated by chunkserver (default is 0, i.e. no)

*HDD_PUNCH_HOLES*:: if enabled then chunkserver detects zero values in chunk
data and frees corresponding file blocks (decreasing file system usage). This
option works only on Linux with file systems supporting punching holes (XFS,
ext4, Btrfs, tmpfs)

*ENABLE_LOAD_FACTOR*:: if enabled, chunkserver will send periodical reports of
its I/O load to master, which will be taken into consideration when picking
chunkservers for I/O operations.

*REPLICATION_BANDWIDTH_LIMIT_KBPS*:: limit how many kilobytes can be replicated
from other chunkservers to this chunkserver in every second (by default
undefined, i.e. no limits)

*NR_OF_NETWORK_WORKERS*:: number of threads which handle (in a round-robin
manner) connections with clients (default is 1); these threads are responsible
for reading from sockets and coping data from internal buffers to sockets

*NR_OF_HDD_WORKERS_PER_NETWORK_WORKER*:: number of threads that each network
worker may use to do disk operations like opening chunks, reading or writing
them (default is 2)

*READ_AHEAD_KB*:: additional number of kilobytes which should be passed to
posix_fadvise(POSIX_FADV_WILLNEED) before reading data from a chunk (default is
0, i.e. use posix_fadvise only with the amount of data that is really needed;
the value is aligned down to 64 KiB)

*MAX_READ_BEHIND_KB*:: try to fix out-of-order read requests; the value tells
how much of skipped data to read if an offset of some read operation is greater
than the offset where the previos operation finished (default is 0, i.e. don't
read any skipped data; the value is aligned down to 64 KiB)

*PERFORM_FSYNC*:: call fsync() after a chunk is modified (default is 1, i.e.
enabled)

*REPLICATION_TOTAL_TIMEOUT_MS*:: total timeout for single replication
operation. Replications that take longer than that are considered failed and
are immediately aborted (default: 60000)

*REPLICATION_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT_MS*:: connection for single replication
operation. If connecting to another chunkserver takes longer than this timeout,
the operation is considered failed and is immediately aborted (default: 1000)

*REPLICATION_WAVE_TIMEOUT_MS*:: *ADVANCED*:: timeout for single wave in
replication. After this timeout, next wave of read requests is sent to other
chunkservers (default: 500)

== REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to the Github repository <https://github.com/leil/saunafs> as an
issue.


== COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008-2009 Gemius SA

Copyright 2013-2019 Skytechnology sp. z o.o.

Copyright 2023-2024 Leil Storage OÃœ

SaunaFS is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, version 3.

SaunaFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
SaunaFS. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

== SEE ALSO

sfschunkserver(8), sfshdd.cfg(5)
